Biotic Rifle: Ana's rifle shoots darts that can restore health to her allies or deal ongoing damage to her enemies. She can use the rifle's scope to zoom in on targets and make highly accurate shots. Since her heal is tied to such a high percision weapon, you'll need to be a crack shot in order to utilize her well during combat situations.
Sleep Dart: Ana fires a dart from her sidearm, rendering an enemy unconcious. If this enemy is hit while unconcious, they will immediately wake up.
Biotic Grenade: Ana tosses a biotic bomb that deals damage to enemies and heals allies in a small area of effect. Affected allies also receive increased healing from other sources (such as her rifle), while enemies caught in the blast cannot be healed for a few seconds.
Nano Boost (Ultimate): After Ana hits one of her allies with a Nano Boost, they will temporarily move faster, deal more damage and take less damage from enemy attacks. This is a very potent skill, and useful for storming objectives or clearing entrenched enemies.
Configuration Recon: In Recon Mode, Bastion is fully mobile and outfitted with a fully automatic machine gun. It does moderate damage at close to medium ranges, however only has a magazie size of 20.
Configuration Sentry: In Sentry Mode, Bastion cannot move as he turns into a stationary turret, with a small shield protecting him from the front. In this mode he can dish out tremendous amounts of damage per second, at short to medium rangers, but cannot move at all, leaving him vulnerable from above or behind.
Reconfigure: This ability allows Bastion to change from Recon to Sentry mode, and vice versa. The transformation process takes roughly 2 seconds to complete, and leaves him vulnerable while it's happening.
Self-Repair: Bastion can, at will, repair himself. This process can be used anytime, however he cannot move or fire his weapon while repairing.
Configuration Tank: This is Bastion's Ultimate Ability. He transforms into a tank, gaining more health and making him smaller and harder to hit. He now fires a huge cannon shell, that does tremendous damage on impact and in a small area around where the shell hits. Bastion will exit this form after a short time has passed.
Fusion Cannons: D.Va's primary weapons. The Fusion Cannons never need to be reloaded, but have a short range, essentially acting like shotguns. While firing, D.Va moves considerably slower than usual.
Light Gun: While walking around outside her mech, D.Va can fire an automatic pistol. It's very accurate, allowing for long range shots, but doesn't deal much damage. Its primary use is to refill D.Va's ultimate bar so she can summon a new mech.
Boosters: By firing her boosters, D.Va will boost forward in the direction you are looking, and can be used to get in and out of combat quickly. Smashing into an opponent will also push them back and deal low damage. The Boosters will continue to push her mech should she decide to Self-Destruct.
Defense Matrix: D.Va activates a force field in front of her which stops all projectiles for a few seconds. This is best used if you see an incoming missile or wish to protect someone as you move forward. This ability can be used at the same time as the Boosters and will be deactivated if D.Va fires her weapon.
Self-Destruct (Ultimate): D.Va jumps out of her mech, which explodes after a few seconds, dealing massive damage in the surrounding area. Self-Destruct normally causes the mech to stop moving as it detonates, however if you fire the Boosters first, they will continue to push the mech as Self Destruct charges.
Call Mech (Ultimate): D.Va summons a new mech. This ability is immediately available after using Self-Destruct, but requires her ultimate bar to be charged if she has lost all her health in mech form.
Shuriken: This is Genji's primary form of attack. He will throw three at a time in a straight line. The alternate attack has him throw the three Shurikens horizontally, covering a larger area but limiting the single target damage.
Deflect: Genji can reflect any projectile shot at him for a few seconds. This is great when trying to close the gap on an enemy, or if you see an especially strong missile or sniper round incoming towards your face!
Swift Strike: Lunge forward, drawing your blade as you go. Anyone caught in your path takes damage. If you kill someone with the lunge, the cooldown is reset, allowing you to use another Swift Strike.
Dragonblade (Ultimate): Genji wields his Katana to strike with the force of the Dragon of the North Wind. This attack does massive damage to each target hit, and lasts about 10 seconds. You can move quickly, but caution should always be used when running up on foes!
Storm Bow: His main weapon, Hanzo can fire arrows at his foes. By holding the fire button, he can pull the bow string back further, making his shot much stronger. Unlike most other characters, Hanzo's arrows have an arc when they fire, so long shots must be aimed upwards.
Sonic Arrow: Hanzo launches an arrow that releases a sonar pulse. It reveals any nearby enemies, even if they are through walls. This effect lasts only a few seconds, but is an excellent way to scout corners, rooms, and line up shots for Dragonstrike.
Scatter Arrow: Fires an arrow that bursts into many smaller arrows. They bounces around, hitting multiple targets, or if fired point blank into one target, all little arrows will collide with that one person.
Dragonstrike: Take a moment to line up the shot, then fire a huge twin dragon in front of you. The dragon will go through walls and shields, dealing constant damage to anyone unfortunate enough to stand in its path.
Frag Launcher: Junkrat's main weapon. Fires a grenade that bounces a few times before detonating. If the grenade hits a target, it will detonate immediately. The grenades fire in a small arc, so long distance shots must be aimed high.
Concussion Mine: Junkrat will throw a mine in any direction you are looking. Can stick to surfaces for surprise traps or hidden in bear traps. When triggered, it will deal a small amount of damage and propel the target into the air. This can also be used to propel Junkrat forward and into the air.
Steel Trap: This trap can be tossed onto the ground and will remain there until triggered, destroyed or a new Steel Trap has been thrown. If an enemy steps in the trap, they will be stunned for several seconds, and take a small amount of damage.
Total Mayhem: When Junkrat dies, he drops a few grenades around his body. These do a medium amount of damage, but have a very short radius.
Rip-Tire (Ultimate): Junkrat deploys a motorized, steerable tire which when detonated deals massive damage in a 10m radius. While using his Ultimate Junkrat is immobile and vulnerable, so careful positioning is necessary.
Sonic Amplifier: Lucio's main weapon, which fires sonic projectiles at his enemies. Although very accurate, the Sonic Amplifier is quite weak. His alternate fire is a point blank pushback, knocking back targets several feet if they are right next to Lucio and dealing low damage.
Crossfade: Lucio always has one of two songs playing. He can switch which song plays at will, and this will alter what buff is currently active. One song continuously regenerates the life of nearby allies. The other is a speed buff, increasing the movement speed of anyone nearby.
Amp It Up: Lucio cranks up the music, increasing the effect of his current Crossfade buff. The boosted effect only lasts for a few seconds, but will drastically increase healing or movement speed, based on which buff is currently active.
Sound Barrier (Ultimate): Lucio slams his amp on the ground, projecting a barrier around any nearby allies. Everyone receives a powerful shield, giving them several hundred hitpoints which deplete over the next few seconds. Using this ability requires you to be on the ground, and takes a moment to activate.
Peacekeeper: McCree's main weapon, the Peacekeeper is a slow firing revolver that does massive damage per shot. The alternate fire has him quickly empty the gun, firing any remaining bullets almost instantly. However with very little accuracy, making it best used at point blank ranges.
Combat Roll: Quickly roll out of the way of trouble. It's a short range roll, but can often times be just enough to get you out of the way of an enemies crosshair or incoming bomb.
Flashbang: McCree tosses a flashbang grenade in front of him. It travels a very short distance before exploding, stunning anyone in the small blast radius for a brief moment. It's best used in conjunction with the alternate fire of Peacekeeper, allowing you to unload every bullet into the stunned target.
Deadeye (Ultimate): McCree slows down time and starts aiming at any enemies on screen. The longer you wait, the more accurate your shot. Once the red skull appears over someone, it's a guaranteed kill. Although rare, it's possible to wipe an entire team with this ability.
Caduceus Staff: Mercy's main weapon, this staff has two functions. The primary attack is a heal, that tethers you to an ally and constantly heals them. The alternate fire shoots a blue tether that increases the damage of whomever is connected to it. 
Caduceus Blaster: A secondary weapon, this pistol is highly accurate but very weak. It's best used in emergency situations, and shouldn't be relied on to get kills.
Guardian Angel: Mercy can look at any nearby ally and fly towards them. This action brings Mercy right next to them, allowing her to then heal or buff their teammate. Guardian Angel allows her to fly if the ally is above her, however she can still get stuck on objects in her path, so a clear line of sight is needed.
Angelic Descent: By holding down the jump button, Mercy can fall very slowly from any height. This allows her to land in a more percise area, or heal and buff allies from above while slowly falling.
Resurrect (Ultimate): Mercy can resurrect any recently killed ally that is nearby. Resurrection is not instantaneous, but those who are in the process of being revived cannot be damaged until they regain full control of their character.
Fusion Driver: Orisa's automatic projectile cannon delivers sustained damage, but slows her movement while she fies it. Best used at close to medium ranges, and during times when speed and easy movement aren't necessary.
Fortify: Orisa temporarily reduces damage she takes, and cannot be affected by action-impairing effects. Fortify lasts for 5 seconds.
Halt: Orisa launches a graviton charge which she can detonate, slowing nearby enemies and pulling them towards the explosion. Best used to initiate a team fight, setting up for large AoE damage.
Protective Barrier: Orisa throws out a protective barrier that can protect her and her allies from enemy fire. Like all barriers, it will collapse after taking so much damage.
Supercharger: Orisa deploys a device to increase damage inflicted by her allies. Anyone affected by the device will have a tether between them and the device.
Rocket Launcher: Pharah's main weapon is a large rocket launcher. It fires slowly, but does tremendous damage to anyone it hits or is near the explosion. The rockets are also highly accurate, allowing for clean, long range shots.
Jump Jet: Pharah fires her boosters, propelling her straight up into the sky. This skill is a great way to get the drop on enemies, as people rarely think to look up for incoming hostiles. It's also a great traversal tool, allowing you to rocket over walls and buildings. By holding down jump, Pharah can also continue her flight for a brief period of time.
Concussive Blast: Fire a small wrist rocket that does light damage, but pushes anyone it hits a large distance. Excellent for knocking people forward, out of position, or even off the map!
Barrage (Ultimate): Leap into the air and begin firing a torrent of rockets at your enemies. This lasts for several seconds as you're able to turn and aim the salvo of rockets. While using this ability, Pharah is exposed and cannot move or dodge in any meaningful way.
Hellfire Shotguns: Reaper's main weapons, these twin shotguns deal extreme amounts of damage, but only at close ranges. They fire at a decent pace, but their accuracy quickly falls off if the enemy is more than a dozen feet away from you.
Wraith Form: Reaper turns into a spectral enemy, making him invincible. While in this form he can still move, but cannot shoot his weapons. Great for getting into, or out of a tricky situation, or for setting up his Ultimate.
Shadow Step: Mark a location, and after a moment, teleport to it. Useful for traversing large gaps, or getting higher up in the map. Shadow Step takes a few seconds to complete however, leaving Reaper vulnerable to attacks.
Death Blossom (Ultimate): Reaper starts spinning in a circle, emptying his shotguns into any enemies nearby him. While doing this, he dishes out tons of damage in a circle around him, however he can still be shot and killed while spinning.
Rocket Hammer: Reinhardt's main weapon, his huge hammer can be swung around in front of him, dealing damage to anyone who gets caught in the mighty swing. The swing is slow but powerful, and can even push targets around with it's impact.
Barrier Field: Reinhardt lifts his arm, causing a massive energy wall to appear in front of him. While active, he moves slower, but blocks all damage in front of him. The shield has a maximum health value, and if emptied, will disappear. The energy will recharge over time while the shield is lowered.
Charge: Reinhardt activates his thrusters, rushing forward. Anyone he hits directly is carried along until the end, and will take near fatal damage if they collide with a wall. Anyone hit indirectly while charging will be knocked aside for large damage.
Fire Strike: Reinhardt throws a massive fireball forward. It can travel through targets, allowing it to hit multiple targets. Strong, but slow moving, Fire Strike relies on enemies being stunned, or locked in place to maximize damage.
Earthshatter (Ultimate): Reinhardt slams his hammer on the ground, stunning and hurting anyone in front of him. This is great for lining up a shot of Fire Strike or Charge!
Scrap Gun: Roadhog's main weapon, it fires a wide spread of shrapnel, like a shotgun. The range is limited, but the power is high, particularly to point blank targets. The alternate fire shoots a clump of shrapnel that explodes like a grenade on impact.
Take a Breather: Drink from your giant flask, regaining a large portion of your health. While doing this, Roadhog cannot move or fire a weapon, and the process takes a few seconds to complete.
Chain Hook: Throw out a huge hook in front of you. If it hits a person, you yank them back towards you, stunning them for a brief moment when they get to you, allowing you to shoot them at point blank range with your Scrap Gun.
Whole Hog (Ultimate): Jam a huge loader onto your Scrap Gun, turning it into a non stop firing chain gun of shrapnel destruction. While this skill is active, Roadhog won't stop firing, he does more damage, and the spread of his weapon is far greater than usual.
Heavy Pulse Rifle: Soldier 76's main weapon, his Pulse Rifle is a fully automatic weapon that works at nearly any range. It does medium amounts of damage, and if fired in bursts, as a high level of accuracy. If fired fully automatic, the accuracy will suffer at long ranges.
Helix Rockets: Fire a trio of rockets in a straight line in front of you. They do massive damage upon impact, but have a very limited area of effect, making them less useful against crowds. Great for sniping stationary, long range targets.
Sprint: Soldier 76 can sprint at any time, increasing his movespeed. This effect ends if he goes to fire, or do another action. Great for running into, or getting out of a tricky situation.
Biotic Field: Throw down a healing emitter, that will heal yourself and anyone else who stands inside it. The effect lasts for several seconds, or until an enemy destroys the emitter.
Tactical Visor (Ultimate): Once activated, Soldier 76 cannot miss a target. His visor guides his aim, giving him automatic target tracking with 100% accuracy. This effect lasts for a few seconds, or will end if Soldier 76 is killed while this is activated.
Machine Pistol: Sombra's fully-automatic machine pistol fires in a short range spread. Damage drops off quickly, making it ideal at only short range.
Hack: Sombra hacks enemies to temporarily stop them from using their abilities, or hacks first aid kits to make them useless to her opponents. Cannot be used at long distances, making it a close-medium range skill.
Thermoptic Camo: Sombra becomes invisible for a short period of time, during which her speed is boosted considerably. Attacking, using offensive abilities, or taking damage disables her camouflage. Exiting from Camo is not instantaneous and instead takes a short time.
Translocator: Sombra tosses out a translocator beacon. She can instantly return to the beacon's location while it is active, even if it's still in flight. Ideal for getting out of a bad situation by hiding the beacon in a corner of a far off building.
EMP: Sombra discharged electromagnetic energy in a wide radius, destroying enemy barriers and shields and hacking all opponents caught in the blast.
Pulse Pistol: Tracer's main weapons are her dual Pulse Pistols. They have a high rate of fire and deal high damage at short range, but damage drops off quickly at a distance. They have a small magazine, but a relatively quick reload speed.
Blink: Tracer teleports forward several feet. She maintains her elevation when blinking, so it can be used to traverse gaps, or jump large distances. She has 3 charges, and each blink recharges a few seconds after being used.
Recall: Tracer reverses time, going back to where she was standing 5 seconds ago. This also reverses any debuffs and damage taken, and will reset her ammo count to what it was 5 seconds ago. While going backwards in time, she cannot be damaged.
Pulse Bomb: Tracer tosses a bomb a few feet in front of her. It can stick to enemies and surfaces, and does tremendous amounts of damage in a reasonably large area of effect. The explosion can also hurt Tracer if she is within the blast radius.
Widow's Kiss: Widowmaker's main weapon, it can be used in two modes. The primary mode is as a Sniper Rifle. Scoping in charges the shot. The longer it charges the more damage it does. When firing the gun without scoping in, it fires like a fully automatic rifle, dealing medium amounts of damage at short to medium ranges.
Grappling Hook: Widowmaker can fire a grappling hook at any ledge and pull herself to it. This is useful for getting up onto rooftops to snipe from, or when you need to make a hasty exit from a bad situation.
Venom Mine: Widowmaker fires a wrist mounted mine onto a surface. It sticks there, then detonates when an enemy is close, releasing a toxic gas that deals damage over time. Useful for setting up a trap, or firing into a crowd of enemies.
Infra-Sight (Ultimate): Widowmaker pulls down her mask, allowing her to see enemies through walls. This effect is given to the whole team. It lasts several seconds, making tracking your enemy far easier.
Particle Cannon: Zarya's main weapon, her particle cannon can fire a continuous beam of destructive energy, dealing a medium amount of damage at short-mid ranges. Alternatively, she can fire an explosive round as a secondary attack.
Particle Barrier: Project a barrier around your body temporarily. Any projectile that hits it will add power to your Particle Cannon, allowing it to deal more damage for a limited time. This skill is excellent when you're rushing an enemy and need some defense.
Projected Barrier: Project a barrier around an ally, absorbing any damage that person takes. This absorbed damage is then transfered to your Particle Cannon, allowing it to deal more damage for a brief time.
Graviton Surge (Ultimate): Throw out a gravity bomb, that sucks in any enemy that gets near it, trapping them. While trapped in the surge, enemies take light amounts of damage and cannot move, making them easy targets.
Orb of Destruction: Zenyatta's main weapon. Throw a single orb in a straight line, or hold down the alternate fire to slowly charge up several orbs. The orbs have pinpoint accuracy at all ranges and do a light amount of damage.
Orb of Harmony: Zenyatta tosses a healing orb to an ally. As long as Zenyatta can see that ally, they will now receive continuous healing. Zenyatta can only throw one orb of harmony, and if another is thrown, the first one is removed from the target.
Orb of Discord: Zenyatta tosses an orb at an enemy. So long as Zenyatta can see the target, that person will take additional damage when shot from any person. Only one Orb of Discord can be active at a time.
Transcendence: Zenyatta becomes a beacon of hope, gaining invulnerability from all damage. While in this new stance, Zenyatta heals all allies around him very rapidly. This stance lasts for only a few seconds.